Notes on running student placement inference engine

1. Prepare database (this uses mysql)
   A. Create a "students" table if one does not already exist
      This will be used to store all student data exclusive of
      transfer credits.
           i. Use createStudentsTable.txt for sql code to create table
           ii. Use this code for creating the table
               as some code is dependent on field names.
   B. Create a transfers table if one does not already exit
      This table will hold all transfer credit information.
      Transfer credit data is currently not used in placeing students
      but the data is printed on LaTeX letters.
           i. Use transfers.txt for sql code to create table
           ii. Use this code for creating the table
               as some code is dependent on field names.

2. Load Data into database
   A. Obtain data from registrar, naming the file "---.csv"
           i. Notes on student data
                    a. The registrar sometimes provides data that
                       does not include a start year. loadData.php 
                       will prompt for this
           ii. Notes on transfer data
                    a. Students with multiple transfer credits are placed
                       on multiple rows.
   B. Place file in same folder as loadData.php
   C. Run loadData.php to populate existing tables
      In populating a table, each column title in the spreadsheet must
      be mapped to a field in the table.  To do this, the program 
      lists a field from the spreadsheet, and the user enters the
      corresponding database field label
           i. At several points, hitting return selects default fields
              Check defaults or enter the desired field
          ii. If you wish to populate more than one table, you will need to 
              run loadData.php for each table

3. Get Placements
   A. Run inferenceDriver.php
           i. The script requires a start year which may be given via
              command line argument or by prompt. 
          ii. inferenceDriver.php makes direct updates to database and
              changes recmathplace, recstatplace and reccsplace fields 
              in the student table.

4. Manual Updates
   A. You may want to manually edit students placements based on transfer
      data received from the registrar
           i. If you want to edit an entire class of students by transfer
              data, run manual_change_class.php.
          ii. If you would like to change a particular student on
              transfer grades, run manual_placements_transfer.php
                   a. To edit a particular student you must know the
                      studentID.

5. Generate Letters
   A. Run generateLetters.php with start year as the command line argument
           i. This script produces a "letters$year.tex" file.
          ii. The file will be in a folder called generated or the current
              directory
         iii. Output file should have twice as many pages as students in
              that current year. 
   B. Run latex on the file generateLetters.php produces.
           i. The command is 'latex file' where file is the produced .tex
              file from generateLetters.
                   a. Output file should have twice as many pages as students in
                      that current year.
   C. Run dvips on the .dvi file that the latex command produced.
           i. The command is 'dvips -O [options] file.dvi where file is the 
              produced .dvi when the latex command was run.
                   a. The [options] values for the printer we use (escher)
                      were '-0.3in,0.6in' which makes the command
                      'dvips -O -0.3in,0.6in file.dvi'.
                      However, this is surely to be variable by printer.
          ii. This command produces a "---.ps" file. This is the final
               product of the inference engine system.
   D. Load letters into evince
           i. Print from evince
                    a.  check 1 letter to be sure margins are appropriate
                    b.  then run all letters
   
6.  Generate Reports
   A. Run placement_listing.php to generate listing of students and placements
           i. The script requires a start year to be entered at a prompt.
          ii. Give copies of output to faculty, so they can annotate 
              adjustements made after individual conferences during 
              New Student Days
         iii. After updating the database with revised placements
              (perhaps with manual_update.php), run placement_listing.php
              again to obtain listing for Registrar's Office
   B.  Run printSummary.php to generate summary statistics on class placements

   
